Clarify the state a client stores with a token (#3150)
quicwg/base-drafts: draft-ietf-quic-transport.md

If the client has a token received in a NEW_TOKEN frame on a previous connection
to what it believes to be the same server, it SHOULD include that value in the
Token field of its Initial packet.  Including a token might allow the server to
validate the client address without an additional round trip.  A client MAY use

> a token from any previous connection to that server.

Reviewer: Do we need any caveats about how older tokens might not be able to be processed?  Or maybe tokens should have an expiry time, which would be a design change... :(

Author: 3 paragraphs down ("Clients might receive multiple tokens on a single connection") mentions that older tokens might become invalid and that clients should send the most recent unused token. I think that covers your question.

client address without an additional round trip.  A client MUST NOT include a
token that is not applicable to the server that it is connecting to, unless the
client has the knowledge that the server that issued the token and the server
the client is connecting to are jointly managing the tokens.  A client MAY use a

> token from any previous connection to that server.

Reviewer 2: Maybe this sentence can be subsumed by the first sentence of the same paragraph that discusses the applicability of the token?

handshake and so they are not authenticated.  For instance, a client might be

> able to reuse a token.  To avoid attacks that exploit this property, a server

Reviewer 3: So that I don't forget: A client might not be prevented from reusing a token.

can limit its use of tokens to only the information needed to validate client
addresses.  A server MUST NOT require the client to correlate any additional

> information with a token (e.g. a NewSessionTicket).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion

Clients MAY use tokens obtained from the this version of QUIC with any connection attempt for the same version.   Clients do not need to consider other properties of the connection that is being attempted when selecting a token, including the choice of possible application protocols, session tickets, or other connection properties.
```

I don't think that this is a testable "MUST NOT".  It's more or less axiomatic.  A server can't prevent clients from attempting to use tokens.

Author: You're right that this isn't a testable "MUST NOT". I think the proposed language here is better suited with the language above describing a client's behavior.

Here I'm trying to provide some advice to server implementers that clients aren't going to keep track of which token came from where (or goes with which ticket), so if they expect that a token and ticket used on a new connection came from the same old connection, they're going to have a bad time.

Reviewer 3: @nharper where are we at here?  I was suggesting a new paragraph, but I didn't get any sense from your reply about whether you thought that was necessary/useful/not.

Author: Sorry for the delay. The new paragraph (framed as client considerations) sounds like a better way to describe this point. I've added a version of that paragraph and rebased this PR. (There was a merge conflict for the change above.)

can limit its use of tokens to only the information needed to validate client
addresses.

Clients MAY use tokens obtained on one connection for any connection attempt

> using the same version.  When selecting a token to use, clients do not need to

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
using the same version.  When selecting a token to use, a client does not need to
```

Reviewer 2: It might be better to say: _using the same "QUIC" version_.

Also, I think it might be a good idea to gather the discussion about applicability to one place. At the moment this PR scatters that to three places: one being the change above (and the first sentence of that paragraph, which already exists), and the provisions being added here.

consider other properties of the connection that is being attempted, including

> the choice of possible application protocols, session tickets, or other

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
the choice of application protocol or the value of any session ticket being used.
```

> connection properties.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
```
